1. client server programming model
- a server process (not machine/host), one or more client processes (processes, not machines/hosts)
- server manages some resource, provides service to clients by manipulating that resource.
- single host can have multiple clients/servers running concurrently.
2. fundamental operation of cleint server programming model - transaction (!= database transaction. e.g - may not be atomic.). Four steps -
- cleint initiates transaction by sending a request.
- server receives request, interprets it, manipulates resources.
- server sends response to client and waits for next request.
- client receives response and manipulates it.
3. To actually implement a client server programming model, clients and servers often run on separate hosts and commmunicate using the hardware/software resources of a "computer network".
4. A "computer network" is a sophisticated physical system. For a host though, a network is just an I/O device connected via a network adapter (another physical device).
Just like USB Controller connects a Mouse/Keyboard to the host. A network adapter is plugged into an expansion slot on the I/O bus providing physical interface to the network.
5. A network is a hierarchical system that is organised by geographical proximity. 
6. Lowest level - LAN. Most popular LAN technology - Ethernet.
7. For Ethernet LANs, all hosts have an ethernet adapter (which have a 48 bit address in there non-volatile memory). An ethernet adapter is connected to a port on a hub.
A hub and ethernet adapters connected to this hub through wires make up an ethernet segment. Multiple ethernet segments can be connected through bridges.
To communicate over Ethernet LANs, hosts send frames via Ethernet adapters - which consist of a frame header and the actual payload. The frame header contains fixed number of header bits
that have information such as the source and destination address and the size of the payload.
8. Multiple incompatible LANs and WANs can be connected by specialized computers called routers to form an internet. (interconnected network.) Routers can be used to build internets from
arbritray collection of LANs and WANs. A router has a port for each network it is connected to.
9. An internet is made possible by an "internet protocal" and a "protocol software" running on each host and router that implements that protocol. A protocol defines two things -
naming scheme ( an internet protocol address for each host) and a delivery mechanism - a uniform way to bundle data bits into discrete chunks called packets. An internet packet
has a header, which contains the packet size, addresses of source and destination hosts and payload.
10. Encapsulation is one of the fundamental insights of internetworking. Protocol software siting on the source host, can create a frame by appending both the internet packet header(PH) and the 
network (LAN/WAN) frame header (FH1) and can address the "frame"(Data-PH-FH1) to a router connected to its network. Protocol software on the router, can then extract info on the destination host from the internet
packet (Data-PH), and use it to create a new frame (Data-PH-FH2) to send the data to the destination host which is on a different network (LAN/WAN). Protocol software on the destination host, can 
retrieve the data by removing the packet header (PH) and the frame header (FH2).

